the following content is provided under a Creative Commons license
your support will help MIT OpenCourseWare continue to offer
high-quality educational resources for free
to make a donation or view additional materials from hundreds of them IT
courses
visit MIT OpenCourseWare at 0 CW
that MIT that EDU home
the
the new the last time
we began the development love the discrete-time
for EA transform and
just days with the continuous-time case we first
treated the notion a periodic signals this led to the forty a series
and then we generalize that to the Fourier transform
and finally incorporated within the framework for the four th
transform both a periodic and periodic signals
in today's lecture but I'd like to do
is expand on some other properties
love for EA transform and indicate how those properties are used for a variety
of things
well let's begin by reviewing the Fourier transform
as we develop did last time it of course involves
a synthesis equation and and analysis equation
the synthesis equation expressing X a van
the sequence in terms of the Fourier transform
any analysis equation telling us how to obtain
the Fourier transform from the original sequence
and I draw your attention again to
the basic point that the synthesis equation
essentially corresponds to decomposing
the sequence as a linear combination
of complex exponentials with amplitude said are in effect
proportional to the 48 transport now
in the discrete-time Fourier transform just as the continuous-time
for a transform has a number all
important and useful properties of course
as i stress last time it's a function 0
a continuous variable and it's also a complex-valued function
which means dead when we represented in general
requires a representation in terms of its
real part an imaginary part or in terms of magnitude and angle
also as i indicated last time
the Fourier transform is
a periodic function of frequency
and the periodicity is
with a period up to par i and
so it says in effect dead the Fourier transform if we replace the frequency
variable
by an integer multiple to pie
the function repeats and I stress again
that the underlying basis
for this periodicity property is the fact
that its the setup complex exponentials
that are inherently periodic in frequency
and so of course any representation using them would
in effect generate a
periodicity with this period of two pi
just an is
in continuous-time the Fourier transform has
important symmetry properties and in particular
if the sequence x7 is
real value an the 4e
transform is conjugate symmetric
in other words if we replace Omega by minus Omega
that's equivalent to applying complex conjugation to the 48 transport and
as a cock consequence this conjugate symmetry
this results in asymmetry
in the real part that is an even symmetry
or the magnitude has an even symmetry
whereas the imaginary part or the phase angle
is are are both art summit and these are symmetry properties again
that are identical to the symmetry properties that we saw in
continuous-time
well let's see this in the context I'll an example that we worked last time and
that
will want to draw attention to
in reference to several issues is this lecture goes along
and that is the Fourier transform all
a real damp expanding exponential
so the sequence that we
are talking about is a to the end you have an
and let's consider a to be positive
we saw last time that the Fourier transform from the for this sequence
algebraically is up this form
and if we look at its magnitude and angle
the magnet to I show here
and the magnitude as we see has the properties that we indicated
is and even function of frequency
course it's a function of a continuous variable
and it in addition is periodic
with a period of two part
on the other hand if we look at the phase angle below it
the phase angle has a symmetry which is ought symmetric
and that's indicated clearly in this picture
and of course in addition to being eyed symmetric it naturally has to be
again a periodic function of frequency
with the period up to par
okay so we have some symmetry properties we have this inherent periodicity in the
48 transform which
arms stressing very heavily because it forms
the basic difference between continuous-time and discrete-time
in addition to these properties have the four EA transform
there are a number of other properties
day are particularly useful in
the manipulation of the 48 transform and in fact
using the Fourier transform to for example
an ally systems represented by when you're past the coefficient difference
equations
bear in the text is a
longer list the properties but let me just draw your attention
to several of them one
is the time shifting property
and the time shifting property tells us dead
if Xserve Omega is the Fourier transform
objective and then the Fourier transform
are x7 shifted in time
is that same for EA transform multiplied by
this factor which is a with your face fact
so time-shifting introduces
a linear phase turn and by the way I recall
that in the continuous-time case we had a similar situation namely that a
timeshare
corresponded to a linear phase
there also is a dual to the time shifting property
which is referred to as the frequency shifting property
which tells us dead if we
multiply a time function by a complex exponential
that in effect generates
a frequency share and will see this frequency shifting property
surface in a slightly different way shortly
when we talk about the modulation property in the discrete-time case
another important property that will want to make you so
shortly is Lenny arity which follows in a very straightforward way from
the Fourier transform definition
and the linearity property says simply
that the 48 transform of Assam
or linear combination is the same with your combination the Fourier transforms
again that's a property that we saw in continuous-time
and also among other properties
there is a parser balls relation for the discrete-time case
then in effect says something similar to continuous-time
specifically dead the energy E
in the sequence is proportional
to the energy E in the 48 transform
the energy over one period or said another way
in fact or another way that it can be said is
that the energy in the time domain is proportional to the power
in his periodic for a transport
okay so these are some other properties
in and are the as i indicated parallel somewhat properties that we saw in
continuous-time
two additional properties their will play important roles
indiscreet I'm just as they did in continuous-time
are the convolution property and the modulation property
the convolution property is the property that tells us
how to relate the Fourier transform
all the convolution two sequences
to the Fourier transforms of the individual sequences
and not surprisingly what happens and this can be
demonstrated algebraically not surprisingly
the four EA transform above the convolution
is simply the product of the Fourier transforms
so Fourier transform maps
convolution in the time domain the multiplication in the frequency domain
now convolutional courses arises in the context of linear time-invariant systems
in particular if we have a system with an impulse response a true fan
input excessive and the output is the convolution
the convolution property then tells us dead
in the frequency domain for EA transform
is the product love the Fourier transform
the impulse response and the forty a transformer the input
now we also saw
and have talked about a relationship between
the Fourier transform the impulse response and what we called
the frequency response
in the context love the response to the system
to a complex exponential specifically
complex exponentials are I can functions have linear time-invariant systems
wanna be's into the system gives us as an output
a complex exponential with the same complex frequency
multiplied by what you referred to as the eye can value
and as you saw in the
video course manual this I can value this constant multiplier
on the exponential is in fact
the 48 transform up the impulse response
evaluated at that frequency
now we saw exactly the same statement
in continuous-time and in fact we use
that statement the frequency response interpretation
love the 48 trance for the impulse response
we use that to motivate and intuitive interpretation
of the convolution property now formally the convolution property can be
developed by
taking the convolution some applying the Fourier transforms into it
doing the appropriate substitution variables in a changing order summations
Center in all the algebra
works out to show that it's a product but as I stressed
when we discussed this with continuous time the interpretation the underlying
interpretation
is particularly important to understand so let me review it again
in the discrete-time case and it's exactly the same
for discrete-time for continuous-time
specifically the argument was that the Fourier transform
all a sequence or signal
corresponds to decomposing it into a linear combination of complex
exponentials
what the airport to those complex exponentials its
basically proportional to the four EA transport
if we think a pushing through the system that linear combination
then each love those complex exponentials
gets the airport to modified are multiplied
by the Fourier transform all up by the frequency response
which we saw is the Fourier transform love the impulse response
so the airport to up the output complex exponentials
is then the amplitudes of the input complex exponentials
multiplied by the frequency response
and the Fourier transform the output in effect
is an expression its expressing the summation
or integration of the output as a linear combination of all of these exponentials
with the appropriate complex amplitudes
so its important in thinking about
the convolution property to think about it in terms
a nothing more then the fact that we decompose the input
and we're now modifying separately
through multiplication scaling
the airport to or each of the complex exponential company
now what we saw in continuous time is that this interpretation
and the convolution property
lead to an important concept namely the concept the filtering
kind of the idea that if we decompose the input as a linear combination of
complex exponentials
we can separately attenuator amplify
each of those compounds and in fact
we could exactly pass some center frequencies and totally eliminate other
center frequencies
so again just as in continuous-time
we can talk about an ideal filter
and what I show here is the frequency response
love idea low-pass filter
the idea low-pass filter of course passes
exactly with a gain of one
frequencies around zero and eliminates
totally other frequencies
however an important distinction here between continuous-time and
discrete-time
is the fact that whereas in continuous time when we talked about an ideal
filter
we passed a band of frequencies and totally eliminate everything else out to
infinity
in a discrete-time case the frequency response
is periodic so obviously
the frequency response must periodically repeat
the low low-pass filter and in fact we see that here
if we look at the low-pass filter
then we've eliminated some frequencies
but then we passive course frequencies
around to pie and also frequencies
around minus 25 for that matter around any multiple
to pie although it's important to recognize
that because of the inherent periodicity at the complex exponentials
these frequencies are exactly the same frequencies
as these frequencies so
its low-pass filtering interpreted in terms of frequencies over a range
from minus buy the pie
well just as we talk about a low-pass filter we can also talk about
a high pass filter and a high pass filter course with
past high frequencies
in a continuous-time case high frequencies man frequencies that
go out to infinity in the discrete-time case
course the highest frequencies we can generate our frequencies up the pie
and wants are complex exponentials go past pie
then in fact we start seeing the lower frequencies again might be
indicate what I mean if we think
in the context of the low-pass filter these are low frequencies
as we move along the frequency axis these become high frequencies
and as we move further along the frequency axis
what we'll see when we get to for example frequency
to pie are the same low frequencies
that we see around zero a particular then
a and i do. high pass filter in the discrete-time case
would be a filter that eliminates these frequencies
and passes frequencies around pie
okay so and we've seen the
convolution property and its interpretation in terms of filtering
more broadly the convolution property in combination
with a number of the other properties today introduced in particular the time
shifting and when the arity property
allows us to generator analyzes
the an ally systems that are described by linear constant coefficient
difference equations
and this again pareles very strongly
the discussion that we carried out in the continuous-time
case their particular let's
think I love a discrete-time system
there is described by when your car is the coefficient difference equation
and will restrict the initial conditions on the equation
such that it corresponds to linear time-invariant system
and recall that in fact in our discussion
when your constant coefficient difference equations
is the condition of initial rest
there on the equation that guarantees
4s that the system will be causal linear and time-invariant
okay now let's consider
a first-order difference equation system described by first-order difference
equation and we've talked about the solution of this equation before
essentially we run the solution recur simply
let's now consider generating the solution by
taking advantage the properties the forty a transport
well just as we did in continuous time we can consider
applying to 48 transformed to both sides of this equation
and the Fourier transform are why I have been
courses y Omega and then using the shifting
property the time shifting property the Fourier transform why event -1
is y Omega multiplied by
you to the minus jail make and so we have this
using the when the arity property we can carry down the scale factor in and these
two together as they read it here
and forty a transformer victim and is XO make
well Wii console this equation
the Fourier transform of the output in terms of the Fourier transform
up the input and a
inappropriate complex scale factor and simply solving this
for y Omega yields what we have here
now what we've used in going from this point to this point
is both the shifting property
and we've also used the linearity property
at this point we can recognize that
here the Fourier transform the output is the product
the Fourier transform of the input and
some complex function and from the convolution property
then that complex function must in fact
correspond to the frequency response
or acquittal atlee the 48 transform
love the impulse response so if we wanted to determine the Fourier
transform
or the or where the impulse response to the system
let's say for example then it becomes a matter
love having identified the 4e a transformer the impulse response which
is the frequency response
we now want to inverse transform to get the impulse response
well how do we inverse transform of course we could do it by attempting to
go through the synthesis equation
for the Fourier transform or we can do is we did
in a continuous-time case which is to take advantage
I love what we know and in particular
we know dead from an example that we work before
this is in fact the 48 transform
all a sequence which is
a to the N times
you then and so in essence by inspection
very similar to what has going on can
in continuous-time essentially by inspection
we can then solve for the impulse response to the system
okay so that procedure follows very much
the kind of procedure that we've carried out in continuous-time
and this is the course is discussed in more detail
in the text well let's
a look at that example
then here we have the impulse response
for that for associated with the system described by that particular
difference equation and to the right of that
we have the Associated frequency response
and one other things that we notice and this is drawn for a
positive between 0&1 what we noticed in fact is that
it is an approximation to
a low-pass filter because it tends to attenuate
the high frequencies and retain and in fact
amplify the low-frequency now
if instead actually the impulse response
was such that we picked a to be negative between minus 10
and the impulse response in the time domain looks like this
and the corresponding frequency response
looks like this and that becomes an approximation
to a high pass filter
so in fact a first-order difference equation
as we see has a frequency response depending on the value obey
dad either looks approximately like a low-pass filter for a positive or a high
pass filter for a negative
very much like the first order differential equation
looked like a low-pass filter in the continuous-time
case and in fact I'd like to illustrate
is the filtering characteristics
for example love filtering using first-order difference equation
and the example that a lil astray
is filtering over sequence that in fact is filtered very often
for a very practical reasons namely a sequence which represents the Dow Jones
Industrial Average
over a fairly long period and
will process the Dow Jones Industrial Average first
through first-order difference equation where if we begin
with a sequel 0 then referring to the frequency response
that we have here equal 0 would simply be
passing all frequencies as a as positive
we start to retain mostly low frequencies
and the larger a gets but still less than 1
the more it attenuates high frequencies at the expensive low frequencies
so let's watch the filtering first
with a positive and we'll see if behave as a low pass filter and then
with a negative and we'll see
the difference equation behaving as a high pass filter
what we see here is the Dow Jones Industrial Average over
roughly a five year period from 1927 to 1930 to
and in fact that big dip in the middle
is the famous stock market crash of 1929
and we can see that following that in fact the market continued
a very long downward trend and
what we now want to do is process this
through a difference equation
above the Dow Jones average we show the impulse response to the difference
equation here
we've chosen the parameter a equal to 0
and the impulse response will be displayed on
in expanded scale in relation to
the scale love the input and for that matter the scale of the output
now with the impulse response shown here which is just an impulse
in fact the output shown on the bottom trace
is exactly identical to the input
and what will want to do now is increase
first the parameter a and the impulse response
will begin to look like an exponential
with a duration: that's longer and longer as
a moves from 0 to 1
correspondingly we will get more and more low pass filtering as the
coefficient a
increases from 0 toward one so now
we are increasing the parameter a we see that
the bottom trace in relation to the middle trace in fact is
looking more and more smooth or
low-pass filtered and here now we have
a fair amount of smoothing to the point where the stock market crash of 1929
is totally lost in fact I'm sure there are many people who
wish that through filtering we could in fact have avoided the stock market crash
altogether
now let's decrease
a from one back toward zero
and as we do that we will be taking out
the low-pass filtering and when they finally reaches
0 the impulse response to the filter will again
be in in polls and so the output will be
once again identical to the input
and that's where we are now
right now we want to continue to decrease
a so that it becomes negative moving
from zero toward -1 and what we will see in that case
is more and more high-pass filtering
on the output in relation to the input
and this will be particularly evident in again
the region a pipe frequencies represented by sharp transitions which
of course
the market crash goodnight 1929 would represent
so here now a is decreasing
toward -1 we see that the high frequencies
or rapid variations are emphasize
and finally let's move from -1
back toward zero taking out the high-pass filtering
and ending up with
equal to 0 corresponding to an impulse response which is an impulse
in other words and identity system and let me stress once again that
the time scale on which we displayed the impulse response
is an expanded time scale in relation to the timescale
on which we displayed the input and the output
okay so we see that in fact a
first-order difference equation is
a filter and in fact it's a very important class the filters and its use
very often to do
approximate low-paying some high-pass filtering
now in addition to
the convolution property another
important property that we had in continuous-time and that we have in
discrete-time
is the modulation property the modulation property tells us
what happens in the frequency domain when
you multiply signals in the time domain
in continuous-time the modulation property corresponded to the statement
that if we multiply in the time domain
we convolved the 48 transforms
in the frequency domain and in discrete-time
we have very much the same
kinda relationship
the only real distinction between the
is is that in the discrete-time case
in carrying out the convolution its integration
only over a two-party interval and
what that corresponds to is what's referred to as
a periodic convolution
as opposed to the continuous-time case
where what we have is a convolution
that is a periodic on pollution
so again we have a convolution property in discrete-time
that is very much like the convolution property in continuous-time
the only real difference is that here work involving
periodic functions and so
its a periodic convolution which involves integration only over to pie
and herbal
rather than in immigration from minus infinity the question
well let's and take a look at the
example love the modulation property which will then
leave to one particular application and a very useful application
love the modulation property in discrete-time
example that I 12 pic is
example in which we consider modulating a signal
with a signal with another signal
X evander x1 event as i indicated
here which is -1 to the end
essentially with that says is that
any signal which I modulate with this effect corresponds to taking the
original signal
and then going through that signal alternating
the algebraic sign
now we in in applying the modulation property of course
what we need to do is develop the 48 transform
this signal this signal which I
rewrite I can ride either is -1 to the air to rewrite is you DJ pie and since
you the J pie
is equal to -1 is a periodic signal
and if the periodic signal that I show here
and recall that to get the 48 transform other periodic signal
one way to do it is to
generate the forty a series coefficients for the periodic signal
and then identify the Fourier transform as an impulse train
where the heights of the impulses in the impulse train
are proportional the proportionality factor to pry
proportional 240 a series coefficients
so let's first workout what the for a series is it for this example
in fact it's fairly easy here is
the general synthesis equation for
the forty a series and
if we take our particular example
where if we look back at the curve above
what we recognize is that the period
is equal to 2 merely repeat after two points
then capital in is equal to two
and so we can just write this out with the two turns
and the two terms involved are x1 a van is a0
0 go fishin as cake 0
in a1 and this is with
cake was one we substituted in capital an equal to two
right well we can do a little bit about to bring here obviously
cross of the factors to and what we recognize
if we compare this expression with
the original signal which is you the j-pop I N
then we can simply identify the fact dead
80 0 coefficient is zero that's the DC term
and call fish in a1 is equal to 1
so we've done it simply by essentially
inspecting the for EA
series synthesis equation
okay now if we want to get the Fourier transform for this we take those
coefficients
an essentially generate
an impulse train where we
chooses values for the impulses to pie
times the forty a series coefficients
so before a series coefficients array0 sequel to zero in a one is equal to 1
so noticed that in
the plot that I shown here above the 40 a transform
love x1 a band we have the zeroth coefficient which happens to be 0
and so I haven't indicated impose
there we have the
coefficient a one and the coefficient a1
occurs at a frequency which is
Omega 0 and Omega 0 in fact is equal to hi
because the signal is the the j-pop I N
well in what's this impulse over here
well any polls is ace
corresponds to the four-day series go fishin a sieve -1
and of course if we drew this out
over a longer frequency axis we would see lots of other impulses
because it the fact that the four th transform periodically repeats
or equipment leader for a series coefficients periodically
p so this is the coefficient
80 this is the coefficient
a one with a factor to pie this is 25 times a zero
and two pi times they won
and then this is simply an indication
that is periodically repeated
right now let's consider what happens if we take a signal
and multiplier modulated by
-1 to the end well in the frequency domain
that corresponds to a convolution
let's consider a signal x2 a van
which has a $4 EA transform as i've indicated here
then the Fourier transform the product
affects 1 event next to %uh van is the convolution
up these two spectra and
recall that if you can fall something
with an impulse train is this is that simply corresponds to taking the
something
and placing it at the positions love
should the impulses so in fact
the result the convolution this with this
would then be the spectrum their I indicate here
namely this spectrum shifted up to pie
and of course two-minus by and then
of course to not only Piper three pie in five
by et cetera et cetera and
so this spectrum finally corresponds to
the Fourier transform -1 to the end
times X to have an where x2 event is the sequence
spectrum was x2 make
okay now this is in fact important
useful and interesting point what it says is
I have a signal with a certain spectrum and if I
modulate multiply that signaled by -1 to the end
meeting that I alternate the signs then
it takes the low frequencies in effect the ship's the spectrum by pie
so it takes the low frequencies and moves them up the high frequencies
and will incidently take the high frequencies and movement the low
frequency
so in fact we in essence saw this when we
so or twenty talked about the example love
a sequence which was aided the end times you have an
notice let me draw your attention to the fact dead
when a is positive we have
this sequence and its Fourier transform
is as II show on the right
for a negative
the sequence is
the identical to a positive but with alternating signs
and the Fourier transform it that you can now see
and verify also algebraically
if you'd like is identical to this spectrum
simply shifted by pie
so it says in fact that multiplying
that impulse response or if we think I've a positive and a negative
that is algebraically similar to multiplying
the impulse response by -1 to the end and in the frequency domain
the affected that essentially is shifting the spectrum by pie
we can interpret that in the context that the modulation property
now it's interesting that
what that says is there
if we have system which corresponds to
a low-pass filter as i indicated here
with an impulse response a true fan
and its it can be any approximation to a low pass filter and even an idea Lopez
filter
if we want to convert that to a high pass filter
we can't do that by generating a new system
whose impulse response is -1 to the end
times the impulse response the low-pass filter
and this modulation
by -1 to the end will take the frequency response
this system and shifted by popeye
so that what's going on here at low frequencies
will now go on here at high frequency
this also says incidently dead if
we look at
the a and idea low-pass filter and i do. high pass filter
and we choose the cutoff frequencies for comparison
for the band with the filter to be equal
since this ideal high pass filter is
this idea low-pass filter with the frequency response shifted
by popeye the modulation property tells us
that in the time domain with that corresponds to
is an impulse response multiplied five minus one to the S
so it says that the impulse response
love the high-pass filter or quently the inverse Fourier transform
love a high pass filter frequency response
is -1 to the end times the
impulse response to the low-pass filter that all follows for the modulation
property
now there's another way interesting and useful way
that modulation can be used to
implement or convert from low pass filtering the high-pass filtering
the modulation property tells us about multiplying the time domain is shifting
in the frequency domain
and the example that we happen to pick said if you multiply
or modulate by -1 to the end that takes low frequencies and ship them to
high-frequency
what that tells us it as a practical and useful
notion is the following suppose we have a system
that we know is a low pass filter and it's a good luck this
how might we use it as a high pass filter
well one way to do it instead of shifting its frequency response
is to take the original signal
shift its low frequencies the high frequencies and its high frequencies the
low frequencies
by multiplying the input signal the original signal by -1 to the yen
process that with the low-pass filter we're now with sitting at the low
frequencies with a high frequencies
and then unscramble it all at the output
so that we put the frequencies back where they belong
and I summarize that here let's suppose for example that
this system was a low-pass filter in and
so it low pass filters whatever comes into it
down below I indicate taking the input and first interchanging
the high and low frequencies through modulation with -1 to the end
doing a low-pass filtering which and what sitting at the low frequencies here
with a high frequencies
this signal and then after the low-pass filtering
moving the frequencies back where they belong
by again modulating with -1 to the end
and that in fact turns out to be a very useful
a very useful notion for
applying a fixed low pass filter
to do high-pass filtering and vice versa
okay no
what we've seen and what we've talked about
are the for a representation for
discrete-time signals and prior to that
continuous-time say and we've seen some very important similarities and
differences
and what I'd like to do is conclude
this lecture by summarizing
those various relationships kinda ball in one package
and in fact drawing your attention to
both the similarities and differences and comparisons between
well let's begin in this summary
by first looking at the continuous-time
for a series in a continuous time for a series
we have a periodic time function
expanded as a linear combination of harmonically related complex
exponentials
and there are an infinite number these that are required to do the
decomposition
and we saw and analysis equation which tells us
how to get these four EA series coefficients
through an integration on the original time
and notice in this that what we have
is a continuous periodic timer function what we end up with
are in the frequency domain is a sequence a Fourier series coefficients
which in fact
is an infinite sequence namely requires all values
K in general
we had then generalized that to the continuous time for EA transform
an ineffective doing that what happened is that
the synthesis equation in the four EA
series became
integral relationship in the Fourier transform
and we now have a continuous-time
function which is no longer periodic this was for the a periodic case
represented as a linear combination up infinite has only close and frequency
complex exponentials with complex amplitudes given by Eq civil make it the
Omega divided by two pi
and we had of course the corresponding analysis equation the told us how to get
exe below me here
we have a continuous-time function which is a periodic
and a continuous function of frequency
which is a periodic
the conceptual strategy in a discrete-time case
was very similar with
so differences resulting in the
relationships because of some inherent differences between
continuous-time and discrete-time we had
we began with the discrete-time for you series
corresponding to representing a periodic sequence
through a set of complex exponentials
where now we only required a finite number of the
is because the fact that in fact with there are only a finite number of
harmonically related complex exponentials
that's an inherent property discrete-time complex exponentials
and so we have a discrete
periodic type function and we ended up with a set of 48 series coefficients
which of course are discrete as for a series coefficients are
and which periodically repeat because it the fact
that the Associated complex exponentials periodically
repeat we then
used in arguments similar to the continuous-time case
for going for periodic time fortunes a periodic time
functions and we ended up with a relationship
describing representation for a periodic
discrete-time signals in which now
the synthesis equation went from a summation to an integration
says the frequencies are now if it hasn't we close
involving frequencies only over to pry interval
and for which the amplitude factor Xa bomb-maker
well the apathy factors X will make it the Omega divided by two pi
and this term Mexico may go which is the 48 transform
is given by this some Asian
and course involves all of the values affects a bit
and so the important difference between the continuous-time and discrete-time
case kinda rose in part to the fact that discrete I miss discrete-time
continuous-time is continuous time
and the fact the complex exponentials a periodic
in discrete-time the harmonically related ones periodically repeat
whereas they don't in continuous time
now this among other things has an important consequence for duality
and let's go back again and look at this equation
despair equations clearly their
is no duality between these two equations
this involves a summation this involves an integration
and so in fact if
we make reference to to our the
their isn't the reality in the continuous-time
for a series however
for the continuous-time for EA transform
we're talking about a periodic timer functions in a periodic frequency
functions
and in fact we look at these two equations we see very definitely duality
in other words the time function effectively
is the Fourier transform the four th transport
little time reversal in there but basically that's the result
and in fact we had exploited that duality property
when we talked about the continuous-time for EA transport
with the discrete-time Fourier series
we have a duality
indicated by the fact that we have a periodic time function
and a sequence which is
periodic in the frequency domain and in fact if you look at these two
expressions
you see the duality very clearly and so
ants the discrete-time Fourier series
that has to do our D and
finally the discrete-time Fourier transform loses the duality
because the fact among other things then in the time domain
things are inherently discrete whereas in the frequency domain
they are inherently continuous so in fact here
there is no do well
okay now that says that there's a difference in the duality
continuous-time and discrete-time and there's one
more very important peace to
the duality relationship and we can see that
first algebraically by comparing
the continuous-time for a series
and the discrete-time for EA transport
the continuous time for a series
in the time domain is a periodic continuous function
in the frequency domain is in a periodic sequence
in the discrete-time case in
the time-domain we have
and a periodic sequence
and in the frequency domain we have a function as a continuous variable
which we know is periodic and so in fact
we have in the time domain here a periodic sequence
in the frequency domain we have to continue with periodic function
and in fact if you look at the relationship between these two
and and what we see in fact is
a duality between
the continuous-time for EA series
and the discrete-time for EA transport
one way of thinking if that is to kind of think
this is a little bit at a time twister which you might want to get straightened
out
slowly but
the Fourier transform a discrete-time is a periodic function of frequency
that periodic function has a forty a series representation
what is this for you series what are the for a series coefficients
that periodic function well in fact except for an issue with time reversal
what it is
is the original sequence for which that's the 48 Reitz
and that is the duality that I'm trying to emphasize
you
okay well so what we see is that these
four sets a relationship all tied together in a whole variety of ways
and we will be exploiting as the discussion goes on the
interconnections a relationship that i've talked about
also as we've talked about the 48 transform both continuous-time and
discrete-time
two important properties that we focus on among
many other properties by the convolution property in the modulation property
we've also shown that the convolution property
the so very important concept
namely filtering the modulation property leads to an
an important con- concept namely modulation
we've also very briefly indicated
that how these properties
and how these concepts have practical implications
in the next several lectures will focus and more specifically
first on filtering and then on modulation
and as we'll see the filtering and modulation concept
form really the cornerstone %uh many many
signal processing ideas thank you